Thank you,
and I want to welcome you to the
Enterprise IT track of Apple's 2003
Worldwide Developer Conference.
Today, what we'd like to do
is review what Apple,
our customers, and you, our developers,
have been doing with Apple and the
Enterprise over the last 12 months.
We also have a special guest,
Tom Yaeger from InfraWorld,
who is going to give us his perspective
on Apple and the Enterprise.
And finally,
we're going to get a sneak preview
of Apple OS X Panther for servers.
So, let's get right into it.
A little background first.
IT technology decisions are made
today in a very difficult environment,
and any of you involved in IT, I'm sure,
realize this.
The IT managers are being
asked to do more with less.
Licensing costs seem to keep rising.
Maintenance costs seem to keep rising.
The only thing that doesn't seem to rise
very much is the economy these days.
And in this challenging environment,
one of the key decisions being faced by
IT managers is the following dilemma.
Everyone would like to
have the flexibility,
the low cost,
the freedom to choose vendors,
the freedom to choose the right tool
for the job that you get by basing
your environment on open standards,
multi-vendor,
and heterogeneous solutions.
However, this comes with a cost,
because some assembly is required.
Putting together things in
your own shop takes time,
takes money, and so it's incredibly
tempting for people to go
with a single vendor solution,
where that single vendor
will integrate things,
make it reliable, hopefully,
and the downside of that is
that you lose flexibility,
and you lose some potential cost savings,
and these days cost
savings are pantomount.
Now, over the last five or so years,
open source-based solutions are
increasingly seen as an alternative
to the status quo of just writing
your check to your vendor every year.
Now, open source, by definition,
drives you to an environment
with open standards,
multi-vendor, and heterogeneity.
Open source means that you're
going to spend some of your
time putting things together,
making sure that they're
managed properly,
installing them.
You're dealing, by definition,
with a heterogeneous system.
The real challenge here is
to get those benefits of open
source without a huge cost.
Now the benefits are, I think, huge.
Over the past 20, 30 years,
software has been developed
in the same way that,
you know, a few minor changes that
This change is now noticed
big time by the IT industry.
Why?
Well, number one, cost savings.
Or I should say perceived cost savings,
because the price tag on
open source seems great.
And we'll come back to that issue.
Number two, by its very nature,
by the development
process of open source,
open source tends to be interoperable.
They tend to hew very
closely to open standards.
Apple has responded to
various cert alerts.
We tend to respond extremely quickly
to those things because of the open
source underpinnings of Mac OS X.
Another big benefit is code reuse.
And code reuse goes without
saying in the open source world.
And as you all know,
the best code and the most
efficient code is the code
that you didn't have to write.
And in the open source world,
the ability to go and grab
something from one project and
reuse it in another project is key.
And then finally, a deep talent pool.
You are leveraging with open
source a talent pool of over a
million programmers worldwide
contributing to various projects.
And in fact,
there's increasing numbers of
people that you can hire in your own
IT shops who know and love open source
and can manage that Apache server
pretty much in their sleep.
So it's really a myth that you
can't find people to manage these
Unix or open source programs.
Now, over the last five years,
the same five years that we've
been developing Mac OS X,
open source has virtually exploded.
And up on the screen are
just a few of the literally
thousands of projects out there.
If you go to SourceForge and you
do a search on open source projects
on SourceForge for Mac OS X,
today there are over
1,300 projects there,
ranging from huge projects
to small projects,
but really it's a testament to
the activity in this environment.
The price tag looks
right for open source,
but it can sometimes
come with a hidden cost.
And the hidden cost is that
there is some assembly required.
And that means that it's not always
delivered with the management tools,
with the vendor backing,
with the integration out of the
box that you would like to have,
and so that creates more work for you.
In a perfect world,
what you would have is you would
have all of the benefits of open
source that we just talked about,
plus the reliability and support
that you get from a major vendor,
plus ease of deployment, installation,
management,
etc., all of the fit and finish things.
And if you had all those together,
you would achieve the nirvana of
lower total cost of ownership.
[Transcript missing]
So this is our strategy.
Leverage open source,
not just in the product,
but outside the box.
Let you leverage open source.
And what we add is the fit and
finish of a commercial product,
the management tools,
the installation tools, everything,
so that your total cost
of ownership goes down.
Now this strategy is
reflected in our products.
It's reflected in our
software with Mac OS X,
Jaguar going to Panther.
It's reflected in our hardware products
from laptops to XServe to XServe RAID.
And it's reflected in
our service offerings.
Service offerings we know need to
be different for the enterprise.
This is an area where we are investing,
and will continue to
invest in the future.
So let's start out by
looking at software.
As was mentioned this morning by Steve,
Mac OS X is Unix-based.
And it's not just any Unix.
It is industrial-strength BSD Unix,
together with CMU Mach,
to provide a highly
responsive environment,
not just for servers,
but also for clients.
A key feature,
or a key thing to remember here,
is that we use exactly the same
source code base when we build
Mac OS X Server as we do Mac OS X client.
It's the same kernel.
This is important because it
makes sure we don't have to
split our engineering resources.
And as we fix bugs or security
issues in one product,
they get automatically
fixed in the other product.
And the two leverage each other.
And it allows us to move very
quickly to add new features to
the Unix base of our system.
Now, on top of this,
Apple has done something that
nobody else has been able to do,
even though many people
have tried over the years,
which is on top of a
Unix-based underpinning to
add state-of-the-art graphics,
frameworks,
and user interface support on the client.
So graphics, as you heard this morning,
state-of-the-art support for OpenGL,
for PDF-based graphics, for 2D graphics,
frameworks from Cocoa to
Carbon to Java frameworks,
and then user interface,
our killer Aqua user interface.
And wait till you get a
chance to try-- I love Expose.
It's going to be a godsend
on the user interface.
Now, on top of these frameworks,
Apple integrates in the
box useful applications.
And we all know and love-- there's
a ton of applications in there,
including the iLife applications.
But what I want to focus on are
the end user applications that
are important to the enterprise.
In fact,
they're critical to the enterprise.
They're end user applications
that mission critical in
any enterprise I know of.
First of all, mail.
So Apple has a great mail client,
just got a whole lot better in Panther.
Integrates IMAP support, POP support,
can interact with any mail server
based on those two standards out there.
Starting with Panther, can support SSL.
So we're taking the mail app forward,
and we'll continue to support that
mission-critical app in the Enterprise.
Address Book integrates with LDAP,
and more and more corporations
are moving to base their addresses
and employee information on LDAP.
Address Book accesses all
that information seamlessly.
Safari, I just,
I want to spend a little bit more
time on Safari because you don't
often think about it this way,
but the web browser is actually
a mission-critical application
for the enterprise these days.
As applications get
deployed to the desktop,
whether it be Oracle or
PeopleSoft or other applications,
the browser is actually often the
front end of those applications.
Now, to me, the exciting thing is this.
In the past,
when we worked with enterprise
software developers like
Oracle or like PeopleSoft,
they would come to us and say, well,
this doesn't work quite right on
Internet Explorer or on Netscape.
And we would sort of
look at them and say,
well, yeah,
we wish that would work better, too.
It's a totally different
ballgame now with Safari.
Safari's based on
open-source project HTML.
We take that in-house.
We add all the
Safari underpinnings around that.
That is totally under our
control now to make it the best
and fastest browser on the Mac.
And the conversations now that
we have with enterprise software
developers like PeopleSoft and
Oracle are totally different because
when they come to us and say,
we'd like to make sure that PeopleSoft
works really great with Safari,
we say, great, no problem.
We're going to fix Safari to
work the best it can possibly
work with PeopleSoft.
And you have PeopleSoft now announcing
they're going to qualify on Safari.
So the world for enterprise
browsers on the Mac just got a
whole lot better with Safari.
Java, of course,
Apple is recognized for having
the best client implementation of
Java Standard Edition out there,
not just by us,
but by others in the industry,
including Sun Microsystems.
Java is the application
language of choice for many
places in the enterprise today,
not just on the client,
but on the server as well.
And last but not least,
that key mission-critical
client-side application,
which is Microsoft Office.
And the Mac business
unit continues to work,
continues to invest in Microsoft Office.
That will, you know,
it's very interesting because we are
the only Unix-based system out there
that also runs Microsoft Office.
One of the things that this has done
for us is that anybody who needs
to run Unix for whatever reason,
in the past,
they would typically have a PC sitting
right next to it because they
also had to run Microsoft Office.
With the Mac,
those two systems collapsed.
And that's a major place where we're
making inroads in the enterprise.
So let's shift gears for a
bit to Mac OS X Server Jaguar.
Mac OS X Server packages just a
ton of services that can run on any
server installation in the Enterprise,
and has those key services that
are important to the Enterprise.
I'll just go through a few of those.
In the area of security, we run Kerberos.
I'm going to go into a lot
more detail later on Kerberos,
but Kerberos is key to single sign-on.
Just leave that there for now.
Come back to it.
Directory, of course,
almost any enterprise today
has a LDAP directory server,
either LDAP or Active Directory,
which is really kind of a flavor of LDAP.
Web services, we have Apache,
which is the leading web
server on the planet,
supporting HTTP and all the
modules that you would want to
support things like SOAP and XML,
RPC, and things like that.
Mail,
a very nice mail server supporting IMAP,
POP, and web mail.
File service,
every file service known to man from
AFP to SMB with Samba to NFS to FTP.
Print service with CUPS print serving.
Internet printing protocol, LPR,
which Unix people know and love,
Apple Talk printing.
And finally, last but not least,
secure shell login,
remote login with SSH.
Now, an important issue here
is that Apple doesn't just
take all of... You know,
these are all the things that we're
going to talk about in a minute.
These are mostly open source projects.
So we have leveraged
them into the product,
but we don't just take the
projects and toss them onto
the CD and ship them to you.
We actually spend a lot
of time integrating them,
making sure they perform well,
making sure that they're QA'd,
making sure that our management
tools can manage all these things.
So that's the major advantage of
getting this from Apple versus just
trying to assemble your own out on
the web on something like Linux.
Next.
Now, to do this,
we provide management tools.
We provide GUI management tools
for remote management of all the
services you saw on the last slide.
In doing so,
we also make sure that we continue
to support terminal-based or
command line tool management,
because there are many people
out there that still like
to manage things that way.
So we don't disable that branch
of managing all of these services.
You can take your pick,
choose whatever works best for you.
We also support SNMP for our
products so that the tools from
other major management vendors,
such as Tivoli, HP with OpenView, or CA,
those projects are enabled to manage
the SNMP aspects of our products.
So we have really complete
management solution,
and I'll talk a bit after Tom speaks
in some of the very exciting directions
we're going to be taking there.
Tools for the Enterprise.
A complete set of tools for
almost every kind of application
you'd like to develop.
Here we show WebObjects.
We include MySQL in the box for database.
Java, of course, is on our server.
You can have Java from us.
You can also get third-party
products like JBoss and use them
to develop EJB applications.
Tomcat for Java server pages,
and of course,
Apache World Class Web Server.
So, no matter what kind of
a developer you are,
you're going to find tools,
and the session right after this
will give some of the Java tools,
an overview for some of the Java tools,
but we've got J2SC,
JBoss is a third-party product,
web applications, Safari, JBoss,
WebObjects, Apache, Tomcat, scripting,
every scripting language known to man,
and then some, are on the box.
So, AppleScript, Ruby, Tickle, PHP, Perl,
TCSH, so if you like scripting,
you'll feel like you've
died and gone to heaven.
And scripting is really the
backbone of many IT shops,
so that's a very important thing
we're doing for the enterprise,
and just making sure all of
those scripting languages run
seamlessly out of the box.
For open source developers,
now traditionally open source is
developed with some very vanilla tools.
The GNU toolchain.
So, GCC, GDB, et cetera.
Often these projects
are maintained in CVS.
What we've done is with Xcode,
we're really wrapping
around those GNU tools.
So,
you can develop your open source projects
with Xcode and gain all the advantages
of an integrated development environment,
but still stick to the tools
that are tried and true in
the open source community,
GDB, GCC, et cetera.
Then finally, for commercial developers,
which a lot of you are, Cocoa, Carbon,
Xcode, and so on.
So, you can develop your open
source projects with Xcode,
and gain all the advantages of an
integrated development environment,
but still stick to the tools
that are tried and true in
the open source community,
GDB, GCC, et cetera.
Then finally, for commercial developers,
which a lot of you are, Cocoa, Carbon,
Xcode, and so on.
Cocoa, Carbon, Xcode, and so on.
Cocoa, Carbon, Xcode, as the IDE, Java,
WebObjects, MySQL.
So, what you end up with is
really a killer developer box.
There are people I've talked to who
make their living doing consulting,
writing applications.
They fly around on the plane.
They develop Java application
in their seat on their tie book.
When they get off the plane,
they install it on a WebLogic EJB server,
and they're off and running.
So, killer box for development.
Talk a bit about hardware.
We have Xserve and Xserve RAID.
Talk a bit about Xserve first.
Xserve is an extremely
cost-effective one-use server.
It's highly optimized for a part of
the market that's very close to us,
which is the entertainment
industry and the biotech industry.
In the entertainment industry,
pan-amount in that
industry is IO throughput.
So what you'll find on XServe is a
huge focus on ins and outs to the box.
So dual gigabit Ethernet built in,
dual port, 800 FireWire built in,
optional optical connect
to your disk drive,
just huge torrents of bits
coming in and out of the server.
XRAID partners with that.
We're able to do that by
providing world-class storage,
XServe RAID storage,
but at a price that really
changed the industry.
The price per megabyte is under
a half penny per megabyte.
So a gigabyte for like $4.30
or something like that.
You can get two and a half terabytes for,
I think it's $10,999, $10,999.
And I don't know what you're going
to do with two and a half terabytes.
We have customers that
are definitely doing it.
If you downloaded every song
from the iTunes music store,
that would be about a terabyte.
So there's a good use for it.
All of these servers remotely manageable
through remote management tools.
So again,
Apple putting the fit and finish and
the management together with these
things so that your total cost of
ownership and deployment goes down.
Finally, AppleCare.
And as I mentioned,
there's a special version of
AppleCare that is specifically for the
servers and aimed at the enterprise,
and this is an area of
continued investment for Apple.
Let's talk a bit about some of our
enterprise partners that have come
online over the past 12 months or so.
Today, we have some great
announcements from partners.
Oracle has announced that the
next-- 9i was such a hit that they
have announced the next version
of the Oracle database server is
going to be targeted at the Mac.
They're going to do a Mac version,
including RAC support.
RAC, for those of you who know,
is their clustered Oracle server.
So this is going to be a killer box,
extremely cost effective.
Let's see, we also have announcements
from BusinessObjects and
WebMethods and iAnywhere.
Take a look at your packs,
and you'll see some very
key announcements of
support for Safari targeting
Mac OS Server with their products.
So we expect continued momentum.
If you look over the past 12 months,
we've had announcements and
progress from all of these partners.
I want to just mention one enterprise
partner that I think is key,
which is Microsoft.
And as was announced previously,
Microsoft is hard at work in
their business unit working on
Microsoft Exchange support for the Mac.
And this is on track with
Exchange support in Entourage,
you're going to be able to
hookup to an Exchange server,
do all of your email,
do all of your scheduling,
do all of your address book.
So for those enterprises where you
absolutely must be on an Exchange server,
we will have from
Microsoft complete support there.
And the Mac business unit there
is really excited about it,
and so are we,
because as you probably know,
this is a big request from
a lot of our customers.
Let's talk about customers.
We sell into several
enterprise markets today.
Entertainment is a huge one for us.
The entertainment industry
has need for huge storage,
huge bandwidth requirements,
as I mentioned.
Life Sciences was really a sleeper,
but it has really exploded
over the last year or so.
Couple reasons for this.
One is that they can really benefit
from the clustering of 1U Mac servers,
and there's a lot of clustering
activity going on because
they have massive databases to
search with the human genome,
and being able to cluster systems
to do that in parallel is just
fitting like a glove with biotech.
We do that really well.
Another big reason why biotech and
life sciences have taken off is
because many of those applications
were developed as open source projects.
So guess what?
When OS X came out,
those open source projects just
gravitated immediately to OS X.
The porting of those
things was fairly trivial.
They all showed up.
Life Sciences has taken to Mac OS X,
and our products are
like a fish to water.
Higher education has
always been strong for us.
Now, with one-to-one ratios of
Macs or PCs to students,
these really face all -- the enterprise
challenges faced by an IT manager
are the same as the ones faced in
universities and higher education.
So a lot of the products
we're talking about are very
appropriate to that market.
And last but not least, government.
Government's always been fairly strong,
and they've been strong for us.
It is with Mac OS X being Unix-based,
being highly secure,
being open source-based,
it's just taking off like a rocket.
And government, of course,
is the ultimate MIS shop,
and they are very picky,
and we are pleased to be able to sell
a great product into that market.
One market that is fairly new for us,
and then I'll just
delve into a little bit,
is financial services.
And this is an emerging market for us.
It's not been strong in the past,
but with our server
products and Mac OS X,
this has a lot of promise for us.
I'll just give you one example,
and that's RiskWise.
RiskWise is a company
that manages credit risk.
And what they do is they
have huge databases of your,
mine,
everybody's credit card transactions,
and they attempt to determine from
that database what your likelihood is
of paying your next monthly statement.
Very interesting business.
In order to do this,
they have to do it in real time.
So they have 190 XSERV systems
and growing very rapidly.
They have 15 XSERV RAID systems,
storing everybody's
credit card information.
They do over a million
transactions processed every day.
Five nines availability
is an absolute must.
And low entry cost and ease
of use of using Apple give
RiskWise a competitive advantage.
And here's what they say.
They can do transaction processing
for a fraction of the cost of most
credit bureaus with an Apple solution.
They are pleased as
punch with this solution.
And the surprising thing to some
people who don't know what we've
been doing with Jaguar and Unix,
et cetera,
is they achieve their five nines uptime.
This system just keeps running.
It does not go down.
If it did, their business would tank.
So they placed a big bet on us,
and guess what?
We've come through with flying colors.
Another example I'll delve into
is in the life sciences market.
This is University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill.
And they have a program there
in what's called Protonomics.
You've probably heard of genomics
where you study the genome,
DNA and the human genome.
Protonomics takes it one step further.
They take a cell and find all of
the protein fragments in that cell,
and then they match up those protein
fragments against the entire 3 billion
base pairs in the human genome.
Obviously,
that takes a lot of processing power.
So what they've set up,
they have a 42 XSERV cluster running.
They do queries on 30.
They do queries on thousands
of proteins simultaneously,
and the results are delivered in minutes.
This is used for both diagnosis
as well as for drug discovery.
So one of the things that brought them
to the platform was the incredibly
simple cluster management administration,
which lowers their
total cost of ownership.
And here's what they say.
They wanted plug-and-play solution
that was cost-effective in the
intermediate computing needs.
So it's interesting to see plug-and-play
applied to clustered servers.
That's the place where
XServe and Apple fits well,
especially with their new cluster nodes.
So another example of very
large-scale computing done with
the products that we put together.
Now I'd like to introduce Tom Yaeger,
our special guest speaker.
Now Tom comes with a background of
over 25 years in the IT industry.
He started out as a programmer,
progressed through the ranks,
became a CIO,
and over the course of that published
three books and hundreds of articles,
and he ended up going to InfoWorld,
where he brought his
experience with IT and IT IT.
management, and he maintains a very
close tie to the IT world.
What he's going to do is give us his
perspective on Apple in the enterprise.
So Tom, welcome.
Tom Yaeger
I'll tell you,
it was worth sitting on a three-hour
flight here from Dallas-Fort Worth just
to listen to the keynote this morning.
That's always true at Apple conferences,
and I love to see how Apple dropkicks
the rumor rags consistently every
time it throws one of these events.
It's a lot of fun.
I started my IT career back in 1979.
I was hacking PDP-11's white hat,
and I'm fully rehabilitated.
And I was also writing business
software for the Z80 microcomputer
using assembly language.
So you Cocoa and Objective-C people don't
know the meaning of the word hardcore,
as far as I'm concerned.
Now, I spent my career doing that,
and in 1982,
something happened that changed my life.
I received the shipment of a
machine called the Model 16.
It was made by RadioShack,
and it was running a little
operating system I'd never
seen before called Xenix.
Xenix was made by an obscure
little company called Microsoft,
and it was,
at the time of its introduction,
the first microprocessor Unix ever.
And I immediately fell in love with it.
I wanted to do the scripting,
I wanted to do the time sharing,
I loved the C programming language.
So I bought into it completely.
And that started my 20-year career.
Odyssey with Unix.
Now, in the early 90s,
an interesting thing happened.
While I was in the interim
between Xenix and this development
I'm about to talk about,
I went through several flavors
of Unix and settled on one
that was my absolute favorite,
which is BSD.
If you talk to anybody
who is truly in Unix,
they will tell you that
BSD is the true Unix.
I'll talk about the history
of System 5 a little bit,
because that happened.
But in the early '90s,
while I was having this love
affair with Unix and with BSD,
I saw a machine that just blew me away.
And it was a little magnesium
cube called the Next,
running an operating
system called Next Step.
And unfortunately,
the market didn't grasp it,
and it went away pretty quickly.
But it set all kinds of new standards.
It had a PostScript user interface.
It had an object-oriented
programming language.
It had BSD,
which you know how I feel about that,
running on top of Mach,
which I also thought was very cool.
And I figured, it's a real shame that
Next didn't make it,
because I wanted all those
things together in one machine.
Now, on the System 5 side,
there were interesting goings-on as well.
AT&T had licensed System 5
to 11 different companies who
wound up selling it for the PC.
And it started out cheap,
and it started out rich.
I think it was,
I think the SEO distribution
was something like 25 floppies.
And then it began to deteriorate.
Each of the 11 vendors started
creating proprietary versions of it.
And they couldn't get together.
They didn't really want to get together
and make this thing interoperate.
So it degenerated to the point
where these vendors started going
out of business very rapidly.
The 11 licensees shrunk to four.
There are now four companies
in the commercial Unix space,
plus Apple.
And none of those four companies are
the original 11 licensees of System 5,
which gives you a perspective of how
quickly and deeply things fell apart.
The last bit of our little history lesson
is what wiped out microcomputer unix.
In 1995,
Microsoft introduced Windows NT 4.0.
And in 1996,
Microsoft introduced some free software
called the Windows NT 4 Option Pack.
Microsoft had learned the lesson
with Internet Explorer that the
best way to get customers is to
give wonderful software away.
And with the NT4 Option Pack,
Microsoft drove right through Unix by
giving customers back all the things
that the Unix vendors had taken away.
So all the enterprise features like
guaranteed messaging and transactions and
database management and web applications,
they were in NT,
and you couldn't find them in any Unix.
It was a bit of a drag,
but I have to give Microsoft credit.
They really did a fabulous job on NT4.
Now, consolidation trend was
obviously already underway.
Unix, the Unix market had consolidated.
Most of microcomputers were pulled
into Windows operating systems.
[Transcript missing]
We also had a trend of commoditization,
and that's an easy one to describe.
Commoditization is the practice
of a vendor deciding that all they
have to do is wait for everybody
else to develop technology,
then find a way to make
it with cheaper plastic,
and then sell it back to the market
for a dollar less than the other one.
And this cycle keeps wrapping
around until IT just says,
"I'm not going to buy this anymore."
When we got into 2002, 2003, IT said,
we're done.
I don't see any reason to buy
a Pentium 4 desktop when my
Pentium 3 is handling my workload.
Why should I pay $1,000 more for
a dual Xeon rack machine when
a dual Pentium 3 goes for $999?
It runs cooler and quieter.
IT was making decisions based on criteria
that had never been present before,
and I'll get to those in a minute.
Apple jumped into the
market in the early 2000s.
I don't think it was on
the radar for most people.
They were behind the scenes developing
Rhapsody and the early versions of OS X.
When the PowerBook first hit,
it was amazing.
When the gigahertz PowerBook,
15-inch titanium PowerBook, hit,
it destroyed the market
for high-end PC notebooks.
What had, up to that date,
been sold as portable workstations,
and I carried these things
routinely because I write code
and I do digital media work and
I need that kind of firepower,
I immediately hung up all of my PCs,
the best of the PC notebooks I had,
and replaced them all with
one machine that to this day
I take everywhere with me.
Apple declared this the
year of the notebook,
and they carried the technology they had
introduced with the 15-inch PowerBook to
the 17-inch and to the 12-inch,
and they continued to take more and
more share away from PC vendors.
They also set standards
for portable computers that
PC vendors never managed to match,
which remains true.
You look at things like battery life,
gigabit Ethernet, wireless networking,
which Apple pioneered and Apple still
does better than anybody else,
a gorgeous display with a 3D
accelerator built into it.
When I picked up a
PowerBook for the first time,
aside from its looks,
There are two things that
really grabbed me about it.
Well, three things.
The first one was that it ran BSD,
and that just hooked me immediately.
The second thing is
what Sons James Gosling,
the father of Java, told me.
He carries a PowerBook.
He does all his programming
on a PowerBook now.
He loved the alien landing beacon
that blinks on and off when
the machine is in suspend mode.
And when I asked him
the single best feature,
tell me the one thing that makes you
carry this machine everywhere you go,
he said, the lid works.
That is no small thing for those of us
who have been using Windows for forever.
Now,
we saw PowerBook redefine its market.
We've seen XServe redefine
its market with price,
with ease of management.
And now we see XServe RAID redefining
the market for networked storage,
not only by bringing prices down,
but by maintaining enterprise features,
like redundant power supplies,
redundant controllers, swappable,
removable trays.
It's not an easy ride for Apple, though.
And we learned that,
InfoWorld learned that,
when we started running editorial
on Apple's enterprise efforts.
We got a lot of letters from readers,
we got a lot of letters from PC vendors,
a lot of screaming phone
calls from PC vendors,
who were telling us,
I haven't heard this before.
I'm not sure I buy it,
because I've been watching
Apple for 20 years,
and what you're telling me
about Apple doesn't map with
my version of the facts.
The first thing they said is,
OS X is not mature.
Look how long Windows has
been on the market.
Look how long Solaris
has been on the market.
This is a newcomer.
I don't trust it.
Remember what I said
about the next machine?
That was back in the early 90s.
And it had these three things in it.
It had BSD, which dates back to 1978.
It has Mach, which dates back to 1985.
And it has the next step APIs and
graphical user interfaces
that date back to 1988.
I don't think you can compare
to that combination of
underpinnings for maturity.
Hardware is slow.
This applied to some of
the Macs a long time ago.
It certainly doesn't
apply to current hardware.
And the most concise observation
I've ever heard about performance was
uttered by Sun's Greg Papadopoulos.
He's their CTO and all-around visionary,
and probably the third
smartest person I've ever met.
And he said, "When you're talking about
performance in computers,
forget megahertz.
It is all about throughput.
If you can't get data
from the CPU to memory,
if you can't get data
from memory to storage,
it's all over.
It really doesn't matter how
fast your chip burns cycles.
It's going to spend most of
its time waiting for I/O."
Max are more expensive than PCs?
Sure.
I mean, most of us remember the
2FX and the Quadra series.
And they were just scary.
You had to love the thing because
you were going to take out a
second mortgage to pay for it.
But with the current market,
if you compare feature for feature
what Mac does with Power Books,
what Apple does with
its Power Mac systems,
which don't get much
attention at shows like this,
but thank goodness they did the keynote
the way they did the keynote today.
Power Macs are cool, powerful machines.
Where can you find a
Unix workstation anymore?
We saw the best example of
that technology this morning.
It's just going to keep getting better.
And on the XServe, once again,
if you line up features,
if you line up overall power,
if you line up IO throughput capability,
forget it.
PCs can't get there from here.
There aren't enough apps.
Yeah, all of us remember
walking through CompUSA,
and there were 12 aisles
of Windows software,
and there was one lonely
aisle of Mac software.
And it was, you know,
games for two-thirds of it,
and then a little, you know,
a little column of
productivity applications.
That's not true anymore.
I'm not saying that we don't
have some distance to come.
There is still a gap.
There is certainly more software
available for Windows PCs.
There is certainly more open source
software available for Linux.
But if you look at the richness
of the software available
for the BSD operating system,
how easy it is to port to OS X,
and if you look at just
what Apple has done,
you can see that there is a gap.
And as far as I'm concerned,
The pace of new development
is just staggering.
So when I say there's more to come,
I don't think it's going to
take long to play that out.
I have some observations from
watching the market in general
that relate to the state of the
market that Apple is playing in.
IT in general.
It's been hard to figure
out what they want.
I remember I've got a close
friend in marketing at Microsoft.
We went out to dinner,
and we had a couple glasses of wine,
and then we got a bottle of wine,
and then we got another bottle of wine.
And when we were done and we were
in the cab going back to the hotel,
he said, "You know that Microsoft would
just love to give customers
what they want?" And I said,
"That's really great.
I'm glad that's so."
And then, in utter frustration,
he looked at me and said,
"So what the hell do customers want?"
Because you couldn't nail it down.
It was a list this long,
and it was a different list
for every vertical market,
and for every line of business,
and every little segment.
But now, thanks to the recession,
thanks to IT getting tired
of having no innovation,
we come down to some very
simple set of requirements.
I want rapid payback,
which doesn't mean I can take
IBM Global Services and give these guys
with suits and briefcases eight years
to bang on enterprise integration.
I want solutions that work when
I pull them out of the box.
And I want payback in six years.
And I want payback in six months.
And if you can't give it to me,
I'm not going to talk to you.
I want minuscule long-term
costs of ownership.
I don't want to have to maintain a crew
of wizards to keep my stuff running.
Zero lock-in?
Don't tell me I can never
leave this platform.
Don't tell me that this architecture
you built this machine with
doesn't run anywhere else.
Not acceptable.
Purposeful innovation isn't
about bells and whistles.
There's lots of cute
stuff on Apple machines.
I have disagreements with
the people at Apple about the
blinky lights on the XServe.
Apple has been criticized in the past for
not putting any lights on its machine.
I remember one of their servers that
had a completely blank front panel
except for one little light for power.
And now, of course,
I would say they've overcorrected a bit.
Now, the best summary of these
requirements came to me from a
gentleman named Winston Bumpus.
That's the coolest name.
And he works at Novell,
and he's probably the fourth
smartest person I've ever met.
And he says, the only reason to buy
something is it makes you money,
it saves you money,
or it's required by the government.
And I thought, thank God.
I mean, I can throw away my 30-page
summary of IT requirements
and just replace it with that.
I thought it was sweet,
and I really do think
it describes reality.
Most of you know how well Apple has
done to adapt to these simpler and
far more demanding requirements.
Apple's execution,
its ability to take these requirements
and turn them into products,
has been fabulous.
That's because the execution
is based on customer feedback.
It's based on the anticipation
of customer needs.
When the PowerBook came out,
didn't you think it was serious
overkill for a portable machine?
Who on earth wanted to carry gigabit
Ethernet around with them on a notebook?
And of course, now we actually use it,
now that we can get a gigabit
Ethernet switch for 80 bucks.
And Apple put in the box
very quick deployment.
We get an out-of-the-box experience.
The notebooks work immediately.
XServe walks you through
the initial configuration.
XServe RAID, when I saw that demo,
I just about fell out of my chair.
It was so easy to set up,
and it was so easy to use,
and it was so resilient.
We were walking around the back
and pulling out power supplies
while it was still running,
and yanking drives out of the thing,
and shutting segments down
from the administrative tools,
and it just kept, yeah, whatever.
And that's what I want.
IT wants solutions that are consistent
across the vendor's product line.
and no compromises.
I don't want machines that make me make
choices about what I can do because
the technology isn't capable of it,
or because the vendor has
decided to impose choices on me.
I think that as we watch how
these trends are panning out,
we see a couple of things that
will make sure that Apple stays
relevant in the enterprise IT market.
And as we watch and as we see
Apple's technology march forward,
we see that IT managers'
confidence in Apple's place in the
enterprise is growing very rapidly.
This company that had no footprint
in the enterprise three years ago,
look at where they are now.
It's only going to get better.
Right now, for financial stability,
for just basic grasp of the market,
we talk about Apple as a niche player.
We talk about what percentage of the
overall computing market it owns.
Who cares?
Look at its stability
and its core niches.
It owns graphics.
It owns broadcasting.
It owns audio and video production.
It absolutely owns ad agencies,
education.
Nobody is going to ever
pry it out of those niches,
and they're worth an awful lot.
And they're developing online so fast.
I mean, they were talking about how
many songs had been downloaded
in the iTunes music service.
It's $0.99 a song.
I've heard that service
referred to online as "iCrack."
Because once you get your first hit.
In the near-term future,
I'm talking about
enterprise trust for Apple,
we see that Apple is building
its enterprise presence in
increments across its product line.
Notebooks, wireless networking,
Airport Extreme, kicks butt.
It really is flat out the finest
access point in the whole world.
I left out workstations,
but I shouldn't leave out workstations.
That's a very important segment.
Scale-out entry servers that
you can cluster together,
that you can put in very
easy failover configurations.
Apple has done that.
They've nailed it.
And with XSERVE RAID,
they've put land storage on the
map for small to medium businesses,
and for large businesses that want
to just stack it up and get terabytes
and terabytes for what they used
to pay for hundreds of megabytes.
And in the long term,
the frontier of computing
is going to be convergence.
We're going to see all of the ways
we use technology come together.
But the mobile devices
in the youth market,
the mobile devices that are used
for personal communication are
going to leak into businesses.
And the best way to summarize
Apple's long-term potential
is that Apple gets one point.
That I think no other vendor gets,
and that is that computers don't
exist to connect to each other.
They exist to connect people to people.
And if you can't do that with technology,
there is no reason for it to exist.
The people in this room,
the 3,000 or so other people
who are attending this show,
have,
I wouldn't call it a responsibility,
but...
I would say that when you look at OS X,
and you look at what Apple put into it,
and you look at what
Apple invested in their hardware,
real innovation.
So much money on R&D,
and everybody here knows
how good this platform is.
We have to go to vendors and say,
you have to put your software here.
We have to go to the
shops we work for and say,
we need to get development projects
ramped up on this platform.
This thing is going to take off.
We really don't want to be
sitting at the back of the room
when this thing catches fire.
So I think the catchphrase leaving
this show is going to vendors,
going to our bosses and saying,
call me when it runs on OS X.
So thanks very much for your attention.
I'm going to hand things back to Bud.
Thanks a lot, Tom, for your insights and
point of view there.
Now for some fun stuff.
Continuing in the theme here of the
idea that what Apple's really doing is
leveraging the world of open source,
but making it so that the
bicycle comes assembled,
and you don't have to stay
up all night assembling it.
And I'm going to talk about Panther,
and how Panther is pushing
this even more forward.
And I'll start out--
Just mentioning a few things
about Panther on the client.
Now, a lot of time was spent
on that this morning,
but hidden in the intricacies there
were some interesting things that
were just kind of glossed over that
are actually really key to deploying
Panther on the client in the Enterprise.
I'll just mention a few of those.
They fall into two major categories.
One is open standards networking,
and the other is
Microsoft interoperability.
Both things are of key
importance to the Enterprise.
On open standards networking,
NIS support in open directory, big deal.
NFS file locking, also a big deal.
It wasn't there in Jaguar.
We have it in Panther.
Integrated IPv6.
Now,
IPv6 sort of hobbled along in Jaguar.
It's totally baked in in Panther.
And as the world, you know,
finally catches up to IPv6,
Panther's already there.
802.11x authentication for secure
wireless communication built in.
Kerberos mail,
Kerberos-enabled mail built in.
Kerberos-enabled AFP,
Kerberos-enabled FPP, SMB, SSH,
Kerberos everywhere.
Very important,
I'll spend a little bit more
time on that on the server side.
Long password support,
X.509 certificate support.
So all of these open standards,
all of these enabled, by the way,
by us going out and integrating
open source projects into Mac OS X,
providing the fit and finish,
providing the management,
making sure it works out of the box.
Now, Microsoft interoperability,
actually a little bit more challenging,
but even there you can go and pick up
open source projects that help you along.
Now, Active Directory integration,
we have a plug-in that lets you,
without changing the
Active Directory schema at all,
lets a Mac OS client use
Active Directory records
to be administered.
Incredibly important.
Steve mentioned these this morning:
Browse SMB servers in the
Finder and SMB printing support,
both important.
And what's called Level 2
Tunneling Protocol/IPsec-based VPN.
This is the VPN standard that
Microsoft and Cisco have adopted.
We support that natively in
Panther as well on the client.
Now, shifting gears to
Mac OS X Server Panther,
or for short, Panther Server.
This is a sneak preview,
and I want to just kind of
go through some of the major
things that are in here.
Now, there's a lot of other things,
fit-and-finish things,
that you should definitely go.
There's an overview session for this.
There's also an in-depth session for
Panther Server that'll cover things like,
there's all kinds of stuff in there.
There's support for
jumbo frames and TCP IP.
So those of you who know
that for gigabit Ethernet,
you actually absolutely
want jumbo frame support,
that's in there.
Async IO, anybody doing database IO.
Unix traditionally doesn't
have Async IO support.
Async IO is in Panther.
We've done a major revision and passed
through the administration documentation.
So there's 12 new manuals
on administration.
I just mentioned the IPv6
support for VPN on the client.
We have the mating service provided,
bundled in with Panther Server.
So you can have a complete
VPN solution with client and server.
So all kinds of stuff in there.
But what I'd like to do is focus on some
of the major pieces that are in there.
This is our best server release ever.
Over 50 new features.
As I mentioned, go to the sessions.
You'll get.
Get the full dose of it.
So number one, automatic setup.
And Tom was mentioning the nice part
of what we do being that you take
your laptop out of the box and it
just sort of works out of the box.
That it's very easy when you buy a
server or X-ray to kind of go through.
We take you through the GUI tools
to set those things up very easily.
But what happens if you have
a whole rack of these things?
Or like one of our customers,
I mentioned 190 of them.
Well, you don't really want to
go and wheel up a head,
attach it,
go through the GUI conversation and
get each one set up individually.
So what do we do?
We now have in Panther Server the
fastest and easiest way to
set up a rack of servers.
And it works very simply.
It requires an iPod.
It doesn't require an iPod,
but you can use an iPod.
If there's any managers, close your ears.
This is a great way to expense an iPod
if you have to administer servers.
All you do is you create using a
GUI tool a server configuration,
create that once, load it onto the iPod,
take the iPod, connect it through
FireWire to the server,
turn on the server out of the box.
So a Virgin server,
never been turned on before, turn it on,
it'll go seek out the iPod,
configure all of the services that
you need to configure on that server,
and you're done configuring.
Now, that'll work fine if you've
got a rack like this,
you go set each one up,
minimal intervention required.
What happens when you
really do have 190 servers?
Well, we do exactly the same thing
from an LDAP directory.
So you populate the LDAP directory with
the server configuration information,
and that can actually be keyed
to each individual server if
they're going to be different.
You plug in the server, turn it on,
it automatically finds those
records in the LDAP directory,
configure it, configure it.
So it configures itself,
and you're up and running.
So this is incredibly ease of
use brought into the IT world
and the server environment.
Really slick.
Second big feature, Open Directory 2.
Now, Open Directory was in Jaguar,
but we have taken that to the next level.
And Open Directory 2 in
Panther Server includes LDAP directory
and Kerberos authentication.
It's LDAP v2 or v3,
and we've taken it a step further.
We put LDAP on top of
Berkeley DB so it scales.
thousands of records supported.
But that's not enough scaling for us.
So we also added the ability to support
local replicas for high availability.
So if one replica goes down,
you can find the other replica.
LDAP keeps running.
Kerberos also keeps running.
And remote replicas,
so that you can go and
set up a remote replica,
and a geographic site can serve
up all the same information.
So this is actually incredible
state-of-the-art scalability
for both LDAP and Kerberos.
And I'll come back to the importance
of those two things in a moment.
Actually, right now.
So one of the biggest challenges,
actually, I was talking to a CIO who said
one of their biggest costs on their
help desk was people calling up
because they forgot their password.
And it's easy to find,
the reason for this is that
almost every network service ends
up requiring its own password.
And so you have two choices, really.
Either you can just choose
the same password for every
service on your network.
That's incredibly insecure, by the way,
and is frowned upon by
any security expert,
because if you crack into one service,
you've cracked all the passwords.
But people do that because there's
really no other easy choice.
The other thing you can
do is have a different,
you can force users to have different
passwords by enforcing a password policy,
so they have to actually
choose different passwords.
For every service that they sign on to.
Of course, then you've left the user
with only one choice,
which is to write down all
their passwords and put it
up on their bulletin board,
which you can see as you walk
around some of these places.
So what everyone is moving
to is single sign-on.
What is single sign-on?
One password provides secure
access to all your services,
but it's done in a secure
way using Kerberos.
The way this works,
the Kerberos server authenticates.
So the Kerberos server
authenticates the user on login.
They're handed out a token,
actually a ticket-granting token,
and they can use that key to log
in and authenticate themselves to
any other service on the network.
So Apple's strategy here on the
server is to make sure every
service we deploy is Kerberized,
which is the term people use.
And likewise,
to make sure the clients that access them
on the client are Kerberized as well.
So, Panther gets us, I would say,
you know, 95% of the way there.
There might be a few
things we've forgotten,
but we'll quickly fix them.
In fact, Panther's not shipping yet,
so let us know about
things that we've left out.
But that is, I think,
going to be incredibly important for any
enterprise deployment of any software,
really.
So, we are well along that path.
JBoss Application Server.
JBoss is widely used to develop and to
deploy J2EE applications in the industry.
It has been something you could
go-- it's an open software project.
You can go and download it and
run it on the Mac if you want to.
We are going to actually
package the JBoss application
server with Panther Server.
Now, what does that mean?
I'd say somewhere between 30%, 40%, maybe
50% of people have been exposed to JBoss,
because when you're
developing J2EE applications,
it is really just so convenient.
You can develop with JBoss on a laptop.
You can deploy it on WebLogic.
You can deploy it on
IBM's application server.
Any J2EE application server,
you can kind of share
J2EE objects between these
different application servers.
If you want to put
JBoss on the Mac today,
there's a lot of work required because
a lot of integration has to happen
with Apache and with other things.
So what we are doing with Panther is
we are taking all of those
pieces and putting them together,
including tools for managing
JBoss so it can become a
deployment environment as well.
And we are including with that
a tool for easily migrating.
There are slight differences in how
J2EE objects are deployed between,
or EJBs are deployed between
different application servers.
We have some tools, for example,
to very easily take a BEA EJB and
import that into JBoss automatically.
So this is going to be a very slick
set of tools for anybody in the
enterprise developing J2EE applications.
I'd like to talk about Mail Server.
With Panther,
we are moving to the Postfix mail server,
which many agree is the most
robust and scalable open email
solution on the market today.
Now,
we're not just putting Postfix in there.
Postfix provides SMTP support.
We're also including Cyrus to
support IMAP and POP.
And you'll notice we have
Webmail and mailing lists.
For Webmail, we're using Squirrelmail,
so we're integrating in Squirrelmail.
For mailing lists,
we're integrating Mailman
right in Panther Server.
So you have a complete mail solution.
We are also integrating
SSL for secure email transport
between client and server.
Server Admin.
So we have had in Jaguar
some server admin tools,
some GUI tools,
and as I mentioned before,
there's also all the command line
tools that you know and love.
But we've taken that to
the next level in Panther.
What we've done is we can combine
the server setup and management
tools with the monitoring tools.
And let me take you through,
I'll give you a demo of that right now.
We could go to machine number one here.
OK, what you're looking at is
server admin for Panther.
And over here--
On the left would be listed
all of your computers.
And right now we're just
looking at one server,
but you could imagine a
whole list there of servers.
And on the right here is a pane which
tells you information about that server.
So which system is this running?
It's running Mac OS X, 10.3,
that's Panther.
It tells you serial number, etc.
I can click through here and find out.
Here's all your system logs,
watchdog logs, software update logs,
all the logs on that system.
Information about the network interface,
what's mounted.
Information about CPU usage over time.
So let's see if I can find out how
long has this server been up here.
Okay, so that's when it came up,
about three hours ago, four hours ago.
I can look at network
traffic on that server.
And I can run software update remotely,
so if I have updates
available from Apple,
I simply check now, those are downloaded,
updated on the server.
Now, things get very interesting.
If I click here, I open up this server,
and what I see are all of the services
that are available to run on that server.
Apple Filing Protocol, Open Directory,
DNS Running Bind, FTP, Firewall,
which is the Berkeley IP Firewall,
Application Server,
which is actually JBoss, Mail, NAT,
Netboot, NFS, Print, QuickTime Streaming.
That's new.
You can manage.
So all of your services you
can manage from one place.
These blue dots over here,
if the blue dot is on,
that means that service is running.
If the blue dot is off,
that service is currently stopped.
So let's go take a
look at what we can do.
Let's click on Web.
So what I'm really doing now is
managing the Apache web server
from Panther Server Admin.
And here I'm looking at
where all the services stop.
So request per second is zero.
Throughput is zero.
I can look at all the logs.
Here's my Apache logs
that I know and love.
Graph the activity, which is zero.
Settings, et cetera.
Now, in settings,
let me take you through a few of those.
Here's one I like,
which is here's all your Apache mods.
You can turn on a module
just by checking it.
Sites is incredibly easy.
So let's say I want to
set up a new website.
Currently I have the default domain on.
I say add.
I give it a name.
Let's say, oh, Tribble.com.
I haven't paid for that,
but someone else owns it.
It's Star Trek-y.
But let's say, let's say Tribble.com.
I say save.
And go back.
And there it is.
Now it's sitting there.
It's not enabled,
so it's just kind of sitting in wait.
I enable it by clicking here.
I start the Apache web
service by clicking there.
Tribble.com is now online.
It's that simple.
[Transcript missing]
If I could go to the,
actually the next thing I want
to talk about is Samba 3.
Samba 3
is the next version of
Samba after Samba 2.
The important thing about it is
that Apple is the first major
vendor going to be shipping Samba 3.
Samba 3 is in Panther today.
Important thing about,
one of the important things about
Samba 3 is that it allows you to have
a single place where you're serving
up file systems and printing to both
Windows users and to Mac servers.
And it goes beyond that in
that the MIS manager can
manage a single record and
and Samba 3 can become a
primary domain controller.
Now, what does this mean?
This means that if I have a person
in my shop who needs to access both
a Windows machine and a Mac machine,
they can have a single
login and password,
and a single file home that they
can use to store all their files.
So that when I go to the Mac machine,
I use that same login and password
as I use on the Windows machine.
All of my configuration information
is stored in that record.
The manager only has to
manage it in one place,
and the user can access
it from one place.
Incredibly convenient.
So Mac OS X Server for Panther,
over 50 new features,
including automatic setup,
Open Directory 2,
Single sign-on,
so you can have a single password
to get at all your services.
Everything Kerberized,
both on the client and the server.
JBoss, the easiest way to deploy
J2E applications on Mac.
Postfix mail server, the most robust,
scalable, open source mail server around.
Server admin tools,
so out of the box configurability and
manageability and monitoring of all
of the services running on the server.
And Samba 3 integrated in with Panther.
Price, $999 for unlimited users.
This is a big deal.
Almost every other operating
system for servers you buy out
there comes with a per-seat cost.
We don't do that.
If you pay the $999 price,
you get unlimited users.
Software maintenance customers
get it automatically.
and all WWDC attendees
get a developer's preview,
so it's in your bags.
You should have it.
Please play with it.
Have fun.
Thank you very much.